.nh
.TH clankerval 1 "clankerval" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
clankerval \- evaluation runner for checked-in agent suites


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBclankerval\fP [\fB--help\fP] [\fB--version\fP] \fIcommand\fP [\fIflags\fP]


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBclankerval\fP loads checked-in evaluation suites, runs trial workspaces against an agent CLI, grades the result, and writes per-trial bundles plus run-level reports.

.PP
Today the runner supports two agent adapters: \fBclnku\fP and Claude Code.

.PP
The two top-level commands are \fBrun\fP and \fBinit\fP\&.


.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBrun\fP
Run an evaluation suite against the current directory.

.TP
\fBinit\fP
Scaffold an \fBevaluations/\fP directory with the default live-provider example suite.


.SH RUN OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--suite\fP \fIid\fP
Suite identifier to run. Defaults to \fBdefault\fP\&.

.TP
\fB--agent\fP \fIid\fP
Default agent under test. Must be \fBclnku\fP or \fBclaude\fP\&. This is only the lowest-precedence selector. Effective agent resolution is \fBtask.agent\fP, then \fBsuite.agent\fP, then \fB--agent\fP\&. When no level sets an agent, the default is \fBclnku\fP\&.

.TP
\fB--binary\fP \fIpath\fP
Path to the \fBclnku\fP binary under test. When omitted, \fBclankerval\fP builds \fB\&./cmd/clnku\fP from the current source tree when present; otherwise it resolves \fBclnku\fP from \fBPATH\fP\&. Claude runs ignore this flag and resolve \fBclaude\fP from \fBPATH\fP instead.

.TP
\fB--evals-dir\fP \fIpath\fP
Evaluations directory. Defaults to \fB\&./evaluations\fP relative to the current working directory.

.TP
\fB--output-dir\fP \fIpath\fP
Output directory for trial bundles and reports. Defaults to the evaluations directory.


.SH EVALUATION FILES
\fBclankerval init\fR creates this shape:

.EX
evaluations/
  suites/
    default/
      suite.json
      tasks/
        001-example/
          task.json
          input/
            instruction.txt
.EE

.TP
\fBsuite.json\fP
Declares \fBid\fP, \fBdescription\fP, \fBmode\fP, optional \fBagent\fP, \fBtrials_per_task\fP, \fBfailure_policy\fP, and the ordered task list.

.TP
\fBtask.json\fP
Declares \fBinstruction_file\fP, \fBworking_directory\fP, \fBstep_limit\fP, \fBfull_send\fP, optional \fBseed_transcript_file\fP, optional \fBmode\fP, optional \fBagent\fP, optional \fBscripted_turns_file\fP, and grader configuration.

.TP
\fBscripted_turns_file\fP
Required only for \fBmock-provider\fP tasks.

.TP
\fBinput/project/AGENTS.md\fP
Project-local prompt file staged into the workspace for \fBclnku\fP tasks.

.TP
\fBinput/project/CLAUDE.md\fP
Project-local prompt file staged into the workspace for Claude tasks.


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBCLNKR_EVALUATION_MODE\fP
Run mode. Must be \fBmock-provider\fP or \fBlive-provider\fP\&. Defaults to \fBmock-provider\fP when unset.

.TP
\fBCLNKR_EVALUATION_API_KEY\fP
Required in \fBlive-provider\fP mode by the shared run-config contract.

.TP
\fBCLNKR_EVALUATION_BASE_URL\fP
Required in \fBlive-provider\fP mode. Recorded in bundle metadata as the configured provider endpoint.

.TP
\fBCLNKR_EVALUATION_MODEL\fP
Optional in \fBlive-provider\fP mode. Defaults to \fBgpt-5.4-nano\fP when unset. Recorded in bundle metadata as the configured provider model.

.TP
\fBANTHROPIC_API_KEY\fP
Forwarded into Claude runs when present. In practice, Claude live runs need this set and need the \fBclaude\fP CLI on \fBPATH\fP\&.


.SH OUTPUT
Each trial writes a bundle under the selected output directory. Important artifacts include:
.TP
\fBbundle.json\fP
Canonical bundle metadata, including suite, task, trial, mode, resolved agent, provider metadata, and artifact paths.

.TP
\fBraw/agent/\fP
Native agent artifacts, for example \fBtrajectory.json\fP and \fBevents.jsonl\fP for \fBclnku\fP, or \fBtranscript.jsonl\fP and \fBresult.json\fP for Claude.

.TP
\fBraw/commands.jsonl\fP
Agent-neutral command trace used by graders such as \fBtranscript_command_trace\fP\&.

.TP
\fBnormalized/transcript.jsonl\fP
Canonical visible transcript events.

.TP
\fBnormalized/outcome.json\fP
Canonical outcome record.

.TP
\fBnormalized/graders.jsonl\fP
Normalized grader results.


.SH EXAMPLES
Run this repo's checked-in dummy self-test suite:

.EX
make evaluations
.EE

.PP
Scaffold the default suite:

.EX
clankerval init
.EE

.PP
Run a consuming project's suite against \fBclnku\fP:

.EX
export CLNKR_EVALUATION_MODE=live-provider
export CLNKR_EVALUATION_API_KEY=your-api-key
export CLNKR_EVALUATION_BASE_URL=https://api.openai.com/v1
export CLNKR_EVALUATION_MODEL=gpt-5.4-nano

clankerval run --suite default --binary /path/to/clnku
.EE

.PP
Run a consuming project's suite against Claude Code:

.EX
export CLNKR_EVALUATION_MODE=live-provider
export CLNKR_EVALUATION_API_KEY=placeholder
export CLNKR_EVALUATION_BASE_URL=https://api.anthropic.com
export CLNKR_EVALUATION_MODEL=claude-code-default
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your-anthropic-key

clankerval run --suite default --agent claude
.EE

.PP
Run the checked-in manual Claude smoke suite:

.EX
CLANKERVAL_CLAUDE_LIVE_SMOKE=1 \\
go test ./internal/evaluations -run TestClaudeLiveSmokeSuite -count=1
.EE


.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fP
Success.

.TP
\fB1\fP
Error.


.SH AUTHOR
Brian Cosgrove cosgroveb@gmail.com
\[la]mailto:cosgroveb@gmail.com\[ra]
